Add Environment Variable Documentation (#6180)
hicommonwealth/commonwealth: knowledge_base/Environment-Variables.md

- [MIXPANEL_DEV_TOKEN](#mixpanel_dev_token)
- [MIXPANEL_PROD_TOKEN](#mixpanel_prod_token)
- [NEXT_PUBLIC_RSA_PRIVATE_KEY](#next_public_rsa_private_key)
- [NEXT_PUBLIC_RSA_PUBLIC_KEY](#next_public_rsa_public_key)
- [NO_CLIENT](#no_client)
- [NO_GLOBAL_ACTIVITY_CACHE](#no_global_activity_cache)
- [NO_PRERENDER](#no_prerender)
- [NO_SSL](#no_ssl)
- [NODE_ENV](#node_env)
- [PGPASSWORD](#pgpassword)
- [PORT](#port)
- [PROCFILE](#procfile)
- [RABBITMQ_API_URI](#rabbitmq_api_uri)
- [RABBITMQ_URI](#rabbitmq_uri)
- [REDIS_URL](#redis_url)
- [ROLLBAR_ENV](#rollbar_env)
- [ROLLBAR_SERVER_TOKEN](#rollbar_server_token)
- [RPC_HOST](#rpc_host)
- [SEND_WEBHOOKS_EMAILS](#send_webhooks_emails)
- [SENDGRID_API_KEY](#sendgrid_api_key)
- [SERVER_URL](#server_url)
- [SESSION_SECRET](#session_secret)
- [SL_BUILD](#sl_build)
- [SL_PORT](#sl_port)
- [SLACK_FEEDBACK_WEBHOOK](#slack_feedback_webhook)
- [SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL_DEV](#slack_webhook_url_dev)
- [SNAPSHOT_HUB_URL](#snapshot_hub_url)
- [TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN_DEV](#telegram_bot_token_dev)
- [TEST_ENV](#test_env)
- [WITH_PRERENDER](#with_prerender)
- [ZAPIER_WEBHOOK_URL_DEV](#zapier_webhook_url_dev)

## AIRPLANE_SECRET

> We use Airplane.dev tasks for our custom domains. See our [Custom-Domains.md](./knowledge_base/Custom-Domains.md) entry for more info.

Reviewer: We're aiming to deprecate Airplane -- this may be removed soon. We do not use it for Custom Domains.

## AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID

> AWS access key ID for programmatic requests. Used alongside `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.

Reviewer: Any idea what library? It's not referenced at all.

Author: Yup, references in aws4, aws-sdk, rollbar

I'll update

## AWS_REGION

AWS region used primarily for uploading local image files. Common uses `us-east-1` by default.

## AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

AWS secret used alongside `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`.

## AXIE_SHARED_SECRET

Secret token used for Axie Infinity login integration.

## CHAIN_PORT

Used in chain testing; the default value is `3000`. For more information, see [Chain-Testing-Overview.md](../knowledge_base/Chain-Testing-Overview.md).

## CLOUDAMQP_URL

Required in production. The URI of our RabbitMQ instance. This value is usually set automatically by Heroku when a CLOUDAMQP instance is attached to an app.

## COSMOS_GOV_V1

Comma-separated list (e.g. "kyve,csdk") of Cosmos chains using v1 (not v1beta1). As of 231212, this should be `kyve,csdk,csdk-v1,quicksilver-protocol,juno,regen` by default.

> Owner: Mark Hegel.

Reviewer: Mark Hagelberg**

Author: Oh my gosh I got his name mixed up with a famous German philosopher

## COSMOS_REGISTRY_API

Community-maintained data source for Cosmos ecosystem blockchains. Pulls from a [GitHub repo](https://github.com/cosmos/chain-registry/) as its source of truth. As of 231212, this should be `https://cosmoschains.thesilverfox.pro` by default.

> Owner: Mark Hegel.

Reviewer: Mark Hagelberg**

## DISCORD_CLIENT_ID

For local testing, we use the staging Discord app/bot. The client ID can therefore be found on the [developer dashboard](https://discord.com/developers/applications/1027997517964644453/oauth2/general) or by contacting Jake or Timothee.

## DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL_DEV

Connects to the #webhook-testing Discord channel on the Commond Protocol Discord server. Required to use the emit-webhook script to send Discord webhooks. More info at [Webhooks.md](./Webhooks.md).

## DL_BUILD

Boolean which ensures that Heroku only builds the Discobot package and related code when deploying.

## ENFORCE_SESSION_KEYS

Boolean feature flag for server-side enforcement of Canvas session keys; by default, `false`.

Owner: Raymond Zhong.

## ETH_ALCHEMY_API_KEY

Used in our CI/CD and stored in GitHub repo secrets. If set, the `load-db` package script will replace production Alchemy URLs with their locally supported variants. Only needed if doing work that involves querying Ethereum.

Owner: Kurtis Assad.

## ETH_RPC

> <!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

Reviewer: Owned by @ianrowan -- injects test metamask wallet info, in my understanding.

Author: Reached out & resolved!

## ETHERSCAN_JS_API_KEY

API key for Ethereum data.

## FLAG_COMMUNITY_HOMEPAGE

Boolean toggle to display side-wide homepage feature for communities. Temporary flag for 2.0 work.

## FLAG_PROPOSAL_TEMPLATES

Boolean toggle to display side-wide sidebar proposal templates. Temporary flag for 2.0 work.

## FLAG_SIDEBAR_TOGGLE

Boolean toggle to display site-wide discussions homepage sidebar. Temporary flag for 2.0 work.

## HEROKU_APP_NAME

Automatically in Heroku; the respective app name. Required when using the DataDog PSQL integration.

## IS_CI

Used and defined on-the-fly in e2e scripts.

Owner: Kurtis Assad.

## JWT_SECRET

Required in production. The JWT seed secret that is used to generate all user JWTs.

## MAGIC_API_KEY

Secret API key for Magic login. Contact Jake Naviasky or Graham Johnson for access.

## MAGIC_DEFAULT_CHAIN

Default chain for Magic login; as of 231212, we use `ethereum`.

## MAGIC_PUBLISHABLE_KEY

Publishable API key for Magic login; as of 231212, development uses `pk_live_EF89AABAFB87D6F4`.

## MAGIC_SUPPORTED_BASES

> Chain bases supported for Magic login; as of 231212, we use  `substrate,ethereum`.

Reviewer: Should be `cosmos,ethereum`.

## MIXPANEL_DEV_TOKEN

Mixpanel analytics tracking token for development work. Reach out to a lead to request a token.

## MIXPANEL_PROD_TOKEN

Mixpanel analytics tracking token for our live production site.

## NEXT_PUBLIC_RSA_PRIVATE_KEY

> <!-- Introduced in #2096 but never documented. If you have information about this token, please contribute. Otherwise, this entry is flagged for removal, and the referrent code for refactoring. -->

Reviewer: Looks related to discobot login flow -- need to determine if it's deprecated.

Author: Ian *believes* (I don't want to misrepresent his epistemic status) this is related to server-side JWT tokens and was deprecated in favor of session keys.

Reviewer: It's only used in the `decryptWithJWE` function, which is called by "authCallback" = the `/auth/callback` route. This page seems to make a call to `${DISCORD_BOT_SUCCESS_URL}/success` which seems to relate to the old version of Discobot (created in #2099). So Ian may be correct here, and we can create a follow-up ticket to remove the authCallback route + associated env vars (DISCORD_BOT_SUCCESS_URL, NEXT_PUBLIC_RSA_PRIVATE_KEY).

Author: Ahead of you! https://github.com/hicommonwealth/commonwealth/issues/6185

I'll update the ticket with the associated env vars for removal

## NODE_ENV

The current environment; set to either `production` or `development`. NB: `NODE_ENV` does not indicate whether the app is *actually* in production; the server may be run locally with `NODE_ENV=production` to test building and compiling.

As of 240101, this variable is upstream of how we handle several other environment variables. This is under consideration and will likely be changed soon, with `SERVER_ENV` proposed as a possible replacement.

## PGPASSWORD

Postgres DB password (by default, `edgeware`). Bypasses usual password prompt for local DB commands.

## PORT

Localhost port location, default value `8080`.

## PROCFILE

Set in all of our Heroku apps that use a separate procfile. Specifies the path from the root of the repo to the Procfile to use for the deployed app. It is never needed locally but it must be set manually on Heroku and is required in production. In the production commonwealth app it is set to `packages/commonwealth/Procfile`.

## RABBITMQ_API_URI

This variable will default to the URI of a local RabbitMQ API server. This allows the use of the message publishing script to publish a message to a local RabbitMQ instance.

## RABBITMQ_URI

> The URI of the RabbitMQ instance. On any Heroku app that has the CloudAMQP add-on (RabbitMQ provider), this is equal to CLOUDAMQP_URL. Locally, this variable defaults to the URI of a local RabbitMQ instance (Dockerized or native). Does not need to be set in a local environment unless you are spinning up multiple the Discobot or Snapshot listener as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The URI of the RabbitMQ instance. On any Heroku app that has the CloudAMQP add-on (RabbitMQ provider), this is equal to CLOUDAMQP_URL. Locally, this variable defaults to the URI of a local RabbitMQ instance (Dockerized or native). Does not need to be set in a local environment unless you are spinning up the Discobot or Snapshot listener as well.
```

## ROLLBAR_SERVER_TOKEN

Refers to a specific project on Rollbar. Local and staging (i.e. non-prod) environments should always use the `CommonwealthDev` token, which may be obtained from the Rollbar dashboard, Timothee Legros or an engineering lead. Only prod uses the `Commonwealth` project token.

## RPC_HOST

Used in chain testing; for more information, see [Chain-Testing-Overview.md](../knowledge_base/Chain-Testing-Overview.md). By default, we use the value `ganache`.

## SEND_WEBHOOKS_EMAILS

Enables Webhook and email dispatching in production when set to `true`. Should be `false` or undefined elsewhere, to prevent Webhooks and emails from being sent in non-production environments. 

## SENDGRID_API_KEY

Used in email-based communications (notifications, digests, login).

## SERVER_URL

By default, this is set in our `commonwealth/server/config` file to `https://commonwealth.im` if in production, and `http://localhost:8080` otherwise.

## SESSION_SECRET

> <!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

Reviewer: Looks like it's the equivalent of JWT_SECRET but for testing only.

## SL_BUILD

Boolean triggering our `snapshot-listener` package to build.

## SL_PORT

Port used for the `snapshot-listener` package. We use the default value `8001`.

## SLACK_FEEDBACK_WEBHOOK

<!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

> Allows Slack users to send feedback via webhook.

Reviewer: It actually enables users to share feedback on the app which shows up in our (old) slack via webhook.

Author: Do we monitor those channels or should we move to deprecate?

Reviewer: We should monitor these channels, but we haven't updated the config to link it to the new slack... Been meaning to figure out how to do that.

Set in our Heroku `commonwealthapp` pipeline to enable PSQL analytics through DataDog. See [DataDog.md](../knowledge_base/Datadog.md) for more info.

## DD_ENABLE_HEROKU_REDIS

Set in our Heroku `commonwealthapp` pipeline to enable Redis analytics through DataDog. See [DataDog.md](../knowledge_base/Datadog.md) for more info.

## DD_DISABLE_HOST_METRICS

Set in our Heroku `commonwealthapp` pipeline to disable metrics that are not presently useful to us. See [DataDog.md](../knowledge_base/Datadog.md) for more info.

## DD_LOG_LEVEL

As of 231212, set to `WARN` in our Heroku `commonwealthapp` pipeline. DataDog configuration token determining severity level logged (e.g. ). May be set to `OFF`, `CRITICAL`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, or `TRACE`. See [DataDog.md](../knowledge_base/Datadog.md) for more info.

## DD_SITE

DataDog configuration token in our Heroku pipeline, specifying our DataDog site region. As of 231212, that region is `us5.datadoghq.com`. For more documentation, see [DataDog docs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/) and [DataDog.md](../knowledge_base/Datadog.md).

## DISABLE_CACHE

If `true`, disables Redis caching middleware.

> ## DISCORD_BOT_SUCCESS_URL

Author: Do we not use this in our `/authCallback` route for web3 login? Or is all that deprecated too?

> ## DISCORD_BOT_SUCCESS_URL

Reviewer 2: Hmm I think we need to remove that route. Discord login is handled with Magic now.

> ## DISCORD_BOT_SUCCESS_URL

Reviewer 2: The variable has already been removed from production env var for a while now and no complaints so 99.99% sure the route is unused.

## DL_BUILD

Boolean which ensures that Heroku only builds the Discobot package and related code when deploying.

## ENFORCE_SESSION_KEYS

Boolean feature flag for server-side enforcement of Canvas session keys; by default, `false`.

Owner: Raymond Zhong.

## ETH_ALCHEMY_API_KEY

Used in our CI/CD and stored in GitHub repo secrets. If set, the `load-db` package script will replace production Alchemy URLs with their locally supported variants. Only needed if doing work that involves querying Ethereum.

Owner: Kurtis Assad.

## ETH_RPC

<!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

## ETHERSCAN_JS_API_KEY

API key for Ethereum data.

## FLAG_COMMUNITY_HOMEPAGE

Boolean toggle to display side-wide homepage feature for communities. Temporary flag for 2.0 work.

## FLAG_PROPOSAL_TEMPLATES

Boolean toggle to display side-wide sidebar proposal templates. Temporary flag for 2.0 work.

## FLAG_SIDEBAR_TOGGLE

Boolean toggle to display site-wide discussions homepage sidebar. Temporary flag for 2.0 work.

> ## HEROKU_APP_NAME

Reviewer 2: Worth noting any environment variable prefixed with `HEROKU` including this one is automatically set by Heroku. https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dyno-metadata

Author: Amazing thanks, good flag

## MAGIC_SUPPORTED_BASES

Chain bases supported for Magic login; as of 231212, we use  `substrate,ethereum`.

## MIXPANEL_DEV_TOKEN

Mixpanel analytics tracking token for development work. Reach out to a lead to request a token.

## MIXPANEL_PROD_TOKEN

Mixpanel analytics tracking token for our live production site.

## NEXT_PUBLIC_RSA_PRIVATE_KEY

<!-- Introduced in #2096 but never documented. If you have information about this token, please contribute. Otherwise, this entry is flagged for removal, and the referrent code for refactoring. -->

## NEXT_PUBLIC_RSA_PUBLIC_KEY

<!-- Introduced in #2096 but never documented. If you have information about this token, please contribute. Otherwise, this entry is flagged for removal, and the referrent code for refactoring. -->

## NO_CLIENT

If `true`, disables the front-end build.

## NO_GLOBAL_ACTIVITY_CACHE

If `true`, disables the initialization of `globalActivityCache.ts` from server.

## NO_PRERENDER

In a production environment, prerender is only run from `commonwealth/server.ts` if this flag is false or blank.

## NO_SSL

Used and defined on-the-fly for the `start-external-webpack` package.json script.

## NO_TOKEN_BALANCE_CACHE

> If `true`, the token balance cache is not initialized.

Reviewer 2: Should be flagged for removal since it will be removed once https://github.com/hicommonwealth/commonwealth/pull/6106 is merged.

## NODE_ENV

> The current environment; set to `production` or `development`. Upstream of how we handle several other env vars.

Reviewer 2: We should make an explicit note here that `NODE_ENV` does not and should not indicate whether the app is in production i.e. we may run the server with NODE_ENV=production locally to test building/compiling.

Downstream variables that _must_ differentiate between environments (i.e. variable is set to a certain value if and only if the environment is actually the production app) should use another variable. What this variable could be is yet to be defined but `SERVER_ENV` has been proposed.

The reason for this differentiation is that `NODE_ENV` has some inherent effects in both node and in dependencies that we have to be able to test locally without utilizing dangerous production values in other environment variables.

## PGPASSWORD

Postgres DB password (by default, `edgeware`). Bypasses usual password prompt for local DB commands.

## PORT

Localhost port location, default value `8080`.

## PROCFILE

> Set in all of our Heroku apps that use a separate procfile. Specifies the path from the root of the repo to the Procfile to use for the deployed app. It is never needed locally but it must be set manually on Heroku and is required in production. Presently set to `packages/chain-events/Procfile`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set in all of our Heroku apps that use a separate procfile. Specifies the path from the root of the repo to the Procfile to use for the deployed app. It is never needed locally but it must be set manually on Heroku and is required in production. In the production commonwealth app it is set to `packages/commonwealth/Procfile`.
```

Author: Woof thanks

> ## RABBITMQ_API_URI

Reviewer 2: This variable will default to the URI of a local RabbitMQ API server. This allows the use of the message publishing script to publish a message to a local RabbitMQ instance.

<!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

## RABBITMQ_URI

> 

Reviewer 2: This is the URI of the RabbitMQ instance. On any Heroku app that has the CloudAMQP add-on (RabbitMQ provider), this is equal to `CLOUDAMQP_URL`. Locally, this variable defaults to the URI of a local RabbitMQ instance (Dockerized or native). Does not need to be set in a local environment unless you are spinning up multiple the Discobot or Snapshot listener as well.

Author: Amazing, TYSM for the thorough write-up

<!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

Should be set if running in the local environment.

## REDIS_URL

Location to host a local Redis instance. By default `redis://localhost:6379`.

> ## REPEAT_TIME

Reviewer 2: Deprecated since the chain-events removal.

The number of minutes the ChainSubscriber should wait between requests to the CW app to retrieve the chains it should be listening to. It is currently set to `10`, meaning every 10 minutes the ChainSubscriber will query the CW App and retrieve all chains that have `has_chain_events_listener` set to True in the `Chains` model.

## ROLLBAR_ENV

> A tag used to identify Rollbar reports by environment, such that we can easily filter on the Rollbar dashboard. In staging and demo apps, we set it to the name of the app. For local production, it should be set to some custom value such as your name in lowercase. It should NEVER be set to `production`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tag used to identify Rollbar reports by environment, such that we can easily filter on the Rollbar dashboard. In staging and demo apps, we set it to the name of the app. Locally it should be set to some custom value such as your name in lowercase. It should NEVER be set to `production`.
```

Author: lmao, think I meant to type "local development," good catch

## ROLLBAR_SERVER_TOKEN

> Required in production; used for real-time error tracking. In local environments and in staging (i.e. non-prod) environments (such as frick, frack, demo, experimental), should be set to the CommonwealthDev token (found on our Rollbar dashboard or by contacting Timothee Legros). Only our production environment uses the CommonwealthProject token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Required in production; used for real-time error tracking. In local environments and in staging (i.e. non-prod) environments (such as frick, frack, demo, experimental), should be set to the CommonwealthDev token (found on our Rollbar dashboard or by contacting Timothee Legros). Only our production environment uses the `commonwealth` project token.
```

## RPC_HOST

Used in chain testing; for more information, see [Chain-Testing-Overview.md](../knowledge_base/Chain-Testing-Overview.md). By default, we use the value `ganache`.

## SEND_WEBHOOKS_EMAILS

Enables Webhook and email dispatching in production when set to `true`. Should be `false` or undefined elsewhere, to prevent Webhooks and emails from being sent in non-production environments. 

## SENDGRID_API_KEY

Used in email-based communications (notifications, digests, login).

## SERVER_URL

> Default value: `https://commonwealth.im`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default value: `http://localhost:8080`
```

## SL_BUILD

Boolean triggering our `snapshot-listener` package to build.

## SL_PORT

Port used for the `snapshot-listener` package. We use the default value `8001`.

## SLACK_FEEDBACK_WEBHOOK

<!-- In need of documentation; if you have information about this token, please contribute. -->

Allows Slack users to send feedback via webhook.

## SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL_DEV

Connects to the #testing-webhooks Slack channel on the Common workspace. Required to use the `emit-webhook` script to send Slack webhooks. This webhook url can be found here: <https://api.slack.com/apps/A05UQUGRWGH/install-on-team>. More info at [Webhooks.md](./Webhooks.md)..

## SNAPSHOT_HUB_URL

Snapshot Hub URL used for Snapshot API requests. As of 231201 the default value is `https://hub.snapshot.org`.

## TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN_DEV

Connects to the CommonWebhooksDev Telegram Bot. Required to use the `emit-webhook` script to send Telegram webhooks. Contact Timothee Legros for an invitation to the channel. More info at [Webhooks.md](./Webhooks.md)..

Owner: Timothee Legros.

## TEST_ENV

Used and defined on-the-fly in Playwright scripts.

Owner: Kurtis Assad.

> ## UNIQUE_DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

Reviewer 2: This is deprecated.
